---
layout: post
title: Week 11 – The beginning of the end 
---
Welcome back readers to the beginning of the end! What does ‘the beginning of the end’ mean you ask? Well my delightful friend, it means the end of the semester is nigh and I can taste the coming of the oh so awaited sweet sweet winter break… Although I enjoy writing these blog posts and thoroughly love being a wordsmith, the allure of laying in bed all day under a thick warm blanket… spending an hour typing on the computer simply can’t compare to the luxury of laziness!

With my usual distraction out of the way, it’s time to hussle! This week I’ll be detailing my current progress with my GitHub issue, [touch on the significance of the open source BIOS coreboot]( https://opensource.com/article/19/11/coreboot-system76-laptops?utm_campaign=intrel) and talk about the new guest speaker professor Weiss invited over this week! This week’s guest was Kevin Fleming! Kevin Fleming works at Bloomberg to produce and support open source software at, you guessed it, Bloomberg! 

### Significance of open source in BIOS
Now here is an interesting bit, even if a user is running open source open source operating system, and open source programs on their computer, there is still some inherent closed source/proprietary software running on that system. This proprietary software is located in the [BIOS]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/BIOS), and the undesirable affects it can have is noted by the concepts listed in Erick Raymond’s [The Cathedral and the Bazaar]( http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html), in other words:
1.	It does not get developed with the people who will use it, instead it is modeled after what the designer thinks is best, which in most cases is likely not in the interest of everyone
2.	Does not receive the manpower of the crowd to catch and fix bugs/errors/crashes/etc
3.	The development is kept secret and prevents the learning of BIOS for those desiring to better the system
Conversely, if a BIOS were to receive an open source BIOS, it would have the opposite effect, which is highly desirable. I look forward to System 72’s release of laptops possessing coreboot and will be interested in the development of the BIOS’ features and fixes as time goes on.


### The Fleming Talk
Out of all the talks received from guest speakers so far, Fleming’s visit felt like it was the most relatable and engaging out of the bunch. I think it’s probably because he seemed like a normal person who was passionate about what he worked on and knew his stuff. No grandiose reason nor obligation due to a job position, it felt like Fleming worked because he was interested in working on open source at Bloomberg. It’s that normality that really drew me into listening, and he even seemed to be having fun talking about his experience, which brought a smile on my face. The story of Bloomberg’s software crashing when Europe’s government were trying to raise money through bonds and how frantic Bloomberg was at the time really peaked my interest.

From what I understood, Bloomberg is similar to FactSet in how they incorporate open source projects into their main product. However, the two differ in their means of giving back to the open source community. FactSet seems like they advertise their use and development of open source projects for the malicious purpose of drawing engineers into their workplace. On the other hand, Bloomberg seems to use and develop open source projects, not as a way of drawing people into Bloomberg, but as a way to simply give back to the community after taking. Of course, Bloomberg most likely draws more from open source than they give back, but the intention Bloomberg seemed pure, at least that’s how it seemed by the way Fleming phrased it! 

### The chronicles of issue solving, volume 4
The day for breaking my shyness has come everyone and I’m not sure how I feel! I took the dive, regardless of what happens and [listed an issue]( https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/84770) related to the documentation of the [VS Code GitHub]( https://github.com/microsoft/vscode). It is definitely a small tweak, but I found it pretty confusing with the inconsistency in how it referenced itself in it’s documentation, not even including the ambiguity VS Code referring to iself as just Code would have. 

I have been informed by professor Weiss that it is definitely not okay to ninja a pull request with suggestions onto a repository. You can think of it like this video related to [consent tea]( https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Exobo1GmYjs), where no one should pour tea into their guest’s throats when they haven’t had the chance to say ‘no’. I should have come to this conclusion myself, but my social anxiety flooded my thinking of ‘everything will be fine as long as you don’t have to face your fears!’ At least me tackling writing down the issue for the maintainers to see is progress?

I do want to list some additional improvements to the documentation, but that belongs to a [different repository]( https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode-docs). If my first issue is accepted, I can finish a pull request by next week, on the other hand if it is denied… I am still hashing out how to add/phrase words in my head for the documentation repository. I’m not sure what to do in the case my issue isn’t addressed, but I’ll be hoping some wise words from professor Weiss will guide me through this conundrum!

That’ll be all for this week, I hope you enjoyed reading the post!

See ya!
