---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Project Evaluation 
---

Welcome back readers to my small world of grasping open source development! This week professor Weiss has permitted us all a well-deserved reprieve from extensive writing and has only tasked us with talking about the **[project evaluation assignment]( https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/project-evaluation-activity-01)** we did in class!

The project, for readers who only want an overview of the assignment, was to practice looking at the quality and activity of an open source project to gain insight into whether or not it would be an appropriate project for any given person to work on. The qualities in a project to for entailed:

- A welcoming community
- Responsiveness
- Activity  
- And much more.

### My experience with the project evaluation
Like all the previous activities done in class, the content of the assignment wasn’t too complicated, nor was it a walk in the park. Thinking about it more, the difficulty of all the assignments thus far have been like Goldie Locks porridge, just right!
The project that my group evaluated was an open source piece of software called Gatsby JS, a package that adds onto Node JS to help developers’ access and handle databases for website building. Although I reviewed a lot of the content inside the repository, and my group answered all the questions, I found I wasn't interested in working on Gatsby at all. As a matter of fact, my eyes began to glaze as I to worked to find the answer to some of the questions and I think this is due to my brain being overloaded by the sheer size of the project.

I enjoy knowing how a project is put together and functions overall, but the fact that there are so many components to the repository, and that I understand only 1% of it, seems to shut my brain down. I know that in order to work and be apart of a company/project that I shouldn't necessarily know the inner workings of every little thing, but there is a mental block I hit just leaving everything to a magic black box. Starting from the issues, going all the way to the pull requests, nothing in the Gatsby repository seemed familiar! Getting over this overwhelmed feeling is probably going to be my greatest hurdle taking this class. I really need to dive into the thick of a project and take a hands on approach!

Some problems I had with doing the project evaluation stemmed from navigating the project’s github, mostly related to the statistics and code about the project. One of the questions was along the lines of ‘how well documented is the code,’ and the problem was navigating the tens of folders to find something that resembled a piece of code. Among the tens, if not hundreds, of config files, CSS files, test cases, etc. looking for the source/heart of the project was frustrating. I think a demonstration or two showing the the class of how to find a project's main code among the tens to hundreds of folders would have been extremely helpful.

On the Statistic end, some of the stats were not easily discoverable using only Github. The questions became a real head scratcher when trying to find some of the answers because the project outline felt like we could find all the answers on github when we couldn't. An example being the total lines of code written for the project, where Openhub had the statistics and Github didn't.

I can’t solely blame the project outline though. Previous schooling has taught me to work only within the confines of what is specified and to never step outside of those boundaries unless you want to be punished. This lesson has prevented me from wanting to experiment/ask questions/test boundaries, and has definitely become a roadblock for me recently. Perhaps this is a problem that prevents other students from raising concerns, because I think I remember hearing about a statistic about introvertedness in students being increased in my generation, but it might be me projecting and imagining it. I hope I’ll be able to conquer this mindset, and this open source class is definitely helping me work towards that!

I think that’s all I have to say about the project evaluation, and with that there is nothing more to write about for this week! Dear reader I hope you enjoyed reading this week’s blog post, and I hope to see your beautiful visage next week!

So long! 
