---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - A foot into Github
---

Pssst… Hey you, yeah you! Welcome back to this week’s blog post! After revising all the previous posts made on the blog last week, my energy tank is a little on the empty side, so I’ll be doing my best to keep things short and sweet!

This week our lovely professor Weiss provided us a reading on **[getting started in contributing to open source projects]( https://opensource.guide/how-to-contribute/#finding-a-project-to-contribute-to)**. The reading provides links to various sites that’ll nudge you towards open source projects looking for contributors. We also did another Github activity last week that showed us more of the workflow that goes into maintaining and contributing to a open source project, 

### My findings based on the readings
The reading itself is straightforward and easy to digest, it even provides a helpful checklist to make sure the project you’re looking at will be accepting for us. One of the problems I found is that the links the readings provide aren’t very user friendly. It displays a metric ton of information and as someone who is not very knowledgeable in a lot of the projects, it was very overwhelming. 

On the bright side there were two websites that seemed helpful and user friendly. The first was **[first contributions]( https://firstcontributions.github.io/)** which had a clean UI and displayed logos to help differentiate projects, and the second was [sourcesort]( https://www.sourcesort.com/) with its simple searching bar + filtering ability. They haven’t necessarily narrowed down my search for a project to contribute to yet, but the two do give me a good foot in the door to begin researching the projects that do pique my interest.

### Thoughts on last week’s Github activity
**[The activity](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/github-workflow-activity-01)** was… okay overall. One of the problems was that no one was distinctly leading the group, so it was easy for miscommunication to happen and not know what step to do next. This became more apparently when no one was sure it was their turn to work/supervising. I guess the hardest part about github is coordination and communication.

Education wise, the git and Github content wasn’t too hard or too easy to get a grasp of. Learning about pull requests, issues, forking, branching, etc. was a kind of fun and not difficult. It was more laborious if anything. One of the main points I was unsure of using Github was the writing etiquette needed for making updates, commits, and issues. I was mostly quite frank and to the point with what I wrote, but the entire time I was unsure if that would be proper in a more professional situation.

Even when me and my groupmates were solving issues and making pull requests, the writing between the three of us felt extremely stiff. I think an example of issues and requests in class would have been great.

With all that said and done, there is not anything left to say. I hope you enjoyed reading this internet friend, I’ll be looking to see you next post!

So long!

