---
layout: post
title: Week 9 – The hunt for an issue
---

Welcome back readers to the ninth week my bloggery has been up and running! What’s a bloogery you ask? It’s a word I just made up that fuses blogging and the ‘-ery’ that’s added to the end of words to make them a place/establishment. You can think of it like an eatery with no eats and blogs in its place! Extremely off topic, lets talk shop!
This week professor Weiss has tasked all of us frantic midterm studying students to read Eric Raymond’s [The Cathedral and the Bazaar]( http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html#catbmain) and provide updates on potential issues we have selected on our repositories to contribute to.

### Thoughts on the Cathedral and the Bazaar

Eric Raymond’s book showed the mindset people had in that era of software development. The idea of being isolated and working on a project oneself until completion was how I thought software development worked. The analogy of building a cathedral all alone worked really well in portraying software development’s state of affairs. Personally I think this problem of working alone stems from the academic field. Homework and all computer science related assignments implicitly forbid others from working together to formulate an answer lest you want to be penalized with academic dishonesty. If the thought of collaboration comes to mind, you are likely to meet something along the lines of “It is an independent assignment, you cannot work with other people.” After reading the Bazaar approach to software development, the cathedral method is far to rigid and not productive to society as a whole.
The three concepts that I thought were neat were:
1.	``Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow.'' (Fred Brooks, The Mythical Man-Month, Chapter 11)
2.	Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers.
3.	Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone.

Planning for disappoint is the right mind set when coding since it is probably well known that everything won’t work out perfectly when writing something the first time around. It makes for a healthy mentality that I mish I had know walking into the field. The second concept of releasing as much as you can to receive feedback was a little shocking to me as I am afraid of negative backlash, but it does seem logical if you want to produce a useful and successful product. I am certain this can apply to more than just computer science. The last concept I thought was hilarious, aka. Linus’ law. It basically uses a marco variation the brute force method, where instead of trying one attempt at a time, you can a whole bunch of people to attempt it for you with their individual methods. Overall the reading was a great peak at the history of open source development, but one of the things I think it lacks was the frustrations of dealing with his open source project development.



### Issues in the issue selection process
As a quick recap, the project I have decided to work on is the light-weight multipurpose and extremely useful [Visual Studio Code]() repository! That introduction is a little fancy, but I can guarantee you that I am 100% not sponsored by the developers/maintainers, but boy do I wish I was!

Moving on, I began my search for a contribution through looking through the currently listed issues on their GitHub repository, and there are quite a number of them. The first thought I had was to look at the tags on each issue and select any that looked relevant to a non-experienced programmer. Some of the tags that caught my interest were:
1.	Markdown
2.	Web
3.	Grammar

This method of choosing resulted in me opening up issues like the following:
1.	https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/83698
2.	https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/83646

My method of selecting issues was somewhat problematic. Due to my inexperience of GitHub tags, I thought the tags meant the issue was related to using the language listed or was a simple problem relating to web or grammar. Unfortunately, that understanding was wrong. Tags such as Markdown and web imply that VS code has a problem supporting these languages and needs someone with technical experience to dig into the VS code database to find what’s causing the issue and make a solution in the handling of these languages. This fact means that solving this sort of issue is way out of my league.

After this revelation, I had the idea to browse through all the tags on the repository to get a better understanding of what each means. It turns out I was right, and the language tags mean VS code needs help supporting the language, not a solution using the language tagged. This is a valuable finding since I will assume from here on out that each project repository on GitHub will have their own meanings assigned to each tag and that I should check their meanings before looking at issues.

Going down the list of 100 or so different tags, I saw that VS code has good-first-issues leading me to filter available issues by that tag, but even then they look too complex to handle without guidance. Examples:
1.	https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/36219
2.	https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/76892
3.	https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/81537

It’s frustrating trying to find something I am knowledgeable and comfortable enough to contribute toward, but finding nothing familiar. I will probably look through pull requests and observe what the changes other contributors make look like, and if I still can’t find familiarity in the process of writing actual code, I will put my efforts next week into looking into the documentation to see if there is anything I can contribute in that direction.

That sums up this week’s blog report, I hope you had a good time reading about my GitHub struggles! May I be prepared next week to bring good news…

So long!

