---
layout: post
title: The end
---
Welcome to the 14th and last week of the blog everyone! It’s been a long ride to get to where we are currently, and I will say it has been a pleasant but difficult experience throughout! 

I walked into this class with practically zero knowledge related to blogging or GitHub-ing, but week after week of practicing and learning, I feel fairly comfortable doing both. There is a caveat, however. With this newfound familiarity, I simply cannot say that I’ve mastered doing either since there is still so much more to learn in both departments. An example was when I was working on my VS code docs contribution. While I was working on my fork and had pushed up my introvideo.md update, the VS code doc had updated and I had to slog through remembering the process of fetching, merging/rebasing, removing conflicts, etc. The process of trying to get the pull request to work didn’t feel natural, but like coding, it will probably come in time if I keep practicing. 

### Did the class meet my expectations
Surprisingly, the class exceeded my expectations in a majority of areas while not completely fulfilling them at the same time. Learning about licensing and legality, how everything on the web isn’t open source, the process and flow of Git were all beyond what I thought we would learn. Heck, the small contribution to open street map and Wikipedia were expected, but finding a project to contribute to on GitHub really threw a curveball at me… mostly because I’m shy and fear having to communicate with strangers, especially strangers who could potentially be working at mircosoft!

The only part I felt that the class was lacking was the learning process of navigating a GitHub repository. We learned about pulling, pushing, merging, rebasing, etc., but never how to find an issue on our level we could work with or locate ourselves where the issue might be. I think that these lessons are extremely important to get a grasp of to give students a sense of autonomy. I felt like I couldn’t tackle anything more than adjusting documentations without relying on the maintainers heavily, which gave me a sense of helplessness, but that may simply be my cursed shyness rearing its head again. Regardless, I do think giving students the valuable knowledge of locating where an issue might be in the repository would give a confidence boost to those who struggled the entire time simply posting an issue.

### Contributions and interests

With all that out of the way, I can talk about how things have changed since the first weeks. One of the original questions that professor Weiss asked us to answer initially was what type of contributions we would do. I can say that instead of simply filing bug reports, working on issues is a more challenging and rewarding approach to contributing to open source projects, regardless of the size of the change. Bonus points for creating the issue and fixing it! My contribution to VS code and VS code docs were nerve wrecking, but incredibly satisfying to have merged into the repository. As for my interest in projects, instead of working on emulators I realized my passion lies in the games themselves, and so in the future I would love to work on an open source game.

### The end

Aaaaand that’s a wrap folks! With all those closing thoughts finished, I wanted to simply thank you for reading this far into the blog… and if you’re a first-time reader reading the last blog post first, I hope you enjoy reading the remaining posts!

If you have a job offer related to computer science, shoot me an email I’ll be more than happy to learn about it! If it’s for blog writing, I’ll accept that too!

Jokes aside, it’s been a real pleasure writing for you and for this open software class. I hope you’ll fair well in what life holds in store for you, and if you happen across any of my new writings in the future…

See ya then!
