---
layout: post
title: Week 10 – Nervous jitters 
---

Good afternoon fellow human and welcome back to this dreadful week and blog post! Why is this week dreadful you ask? Because Halloween was last week, and I forgot to wish everyone a safe and happy Halloween of course! I hope you’ve prepared a piece of candy or two, because we’re going to dive right into progress, and as Marry Poppins says, “A spoonful of sugar helps the medicine go down”!

This week I will covering what progress has been made towards finding an issue in the VS code GitHub, as well as talking about [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/). That’s all, short and simple this time!

### Wikipedia

[Did you know that there is a Wikipedia page for Wikipedia?](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Contributing_to_Wikipedia#Getting_started) If you take a second to think about it, it seems like a logical Wikipedia would have one. For some reason I never really thought to read up on the company that provides humanity a great wealth of free knowledge from the company itself, probably due to believing there might be an inherent biased opinion. However, bias aside, it does contain a great guide for contributing to Wikipedia.

One of the things I never noticed when reading Wikipedia articles is the writing style for many pages being similar. It’s a little weird to think that a wealth of knowledge written and edited by thousands of different individuals produce writing that seems pretty consistent to one another.

Interestingly, even though Wikipedia is open source knowledge, I had trouble finding whether they had permission/ownership to the images added along to articles that are related to the topic. An example being any companies logo, or images of celebrities.

### Update on issue progress

On to the meat and potatoes of this week’s post, progress! Last week I was bouncing between the ideas of trying to figure out VS code’s logic to solve an existing issue or create my own issues relating to documentation. I can say firmly as of now that my first contribution will be the latter, and this is due to documentation being a something I know I can do before the semester ends. If it’s learning the inside and out of VS code… I can’t say for certain whether I would be able to figure out how to solve any issue at all! 

Now what is my game plan? Well I have already been reading various parts of VS code’s documentation, and something I have noticed is that there is a distinct lack of consistency in many places. From their [roadmap]( https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/wiki/Roadmap) to their [readme file]( https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/blob/master/README.md), they frequently infrequently refer to VS code as just Code, and just code is really ambiguous. There are also sections where they improved the format of writing documentation, but did not retroactively change other documents to follow suit like [this roadmap plan]( https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/wiki/Roadmap) and [this progress report](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/82194). My plan of action to fork the repository and make a pull request standardizing these inconsistencies to create more clarity in the VS code documentation. There are also additional pieces of information I want to add to their [docs page]( https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-docs), that adds a little bit of help in setting up VS code.

One of the problems I am having is that I am extremely anxious interacting with people over the internet… scratch that, I am anxious interacting with anyone if they have a position of authority. This is because I’m afraid of doing something wrong… getting yelled at… and then banned. I do want to submit and issue related to the inconsistencies I wrote above, but the [contributions document]( https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) I looked at only explained filing an issue if there was a problem/suggestion related to VS code itself, not the documentations. On the other hand, every single wiki/documentation page has a little button on the top or bottom that says “Want to contribute to this wiki? Fork it and send a pull request” like at the bottom of [this feedback channel wiki page]( https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/wiki/Feedback-Channels). I looked at a pull request that changed the intro to the readme file and it seems like they [made the changes without filing an issue]( https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/pull/79642). I wonder if it would be okay if I did the same… 

Anyways that’s going to be it for this week, thanks for taking the time to read this little post and I hope you’ll hang around to the conclusion of my blog!

See ya next time!
