---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Contributions and projects
---

Welcome back readers to my little ol' blog, if you're new here you can look at [my first post here](https://hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019.github.io/waterpolymer-weekly/week01/), otherwise I greet you with a good internet hug! The second week of the semester has come, and with it a new set of questions our professor, Steward Weiss, wants us to answer!

#### What types of contributions do you think are suitable choices for you to make as your first contributions to an open source project? 

In class, professor Weiss went over the history of open source software, and with it, methods people can contribute to their development. Interestingly, everybody can contribute even if they don't know how to code! [A list of ways can be found here](https://icontribute.wordpress.com/how-to-contribute-to-open-source-without-coding/), which lists ways like translating/creating user documentation to the charitable act of donating.

Personally I love making feature suggestions and filing bug reports. Feature suggestions and bug reports are relatively easy to do, plus they benefit the entire community since it leads to an overall better experience with the program/piece of software! An added bonus is that they are a great way to complain productively! 

#### What types of projects interest you and how do you see your relationship to them?

Well... I am extremely interested in archiving games and their accessibility to larger audiences. The reason? It’s because I’ve been playing games since I was a wee lass. 

In my experience, not all games are easily playable/accessible. Problems can range from platform incompatibility, bad installation guides or limited availability. These difficulties make it easy for players to give up on getting a game to work, even though they might love if it got up and running. I guess this means I would like to help in the development of open source emulators?

There has been lots of news as of late about companies going after emulators, (see nintendo taking down emuparadise)[https://www.polygon.com/2018/8/15/17693556/emuparadise-roms-shut-down-threat-nintendo], so I’m a little unsure if that would be allowed for this class...

Aaaaand that wrap for this week's post. Thank you, internet stranger, for reading this week's blog. I hope you'll stick around to next week where I might start contributing to the world!

See ya next week~
