---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Blog post revamp
---

Welcome back readers, this is your [friendly neighborhood spider ma-](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Friendly_Neighborhood_Spider-Man) *cough cough,* I mean, friendly neighborhood blog post here! I'm here today to tell you all about the academic discourse surrounding open source software and tell you about the logistics of running a blog!

Let's start off with blog logistics first! Recently I was having troubles making new titles and opening dialogues for these posts, this is because I strove for original greetings in the header and original opening dialogues for each blog post. The problem was that the pool of greetings, without resorting to other languages, would dry up before I would reach the 12th week of this course! Thus, I have improvised a new system starting this post, and have already retroactively applied to previous posts! I will be doing two things:

1. I will be removing the opening greetings header and placing a relevant title in... well the title of the post.  
I'm not sure why I didn't think of this in the first place, but oh boy do I feel silly.
2. I will probably always open with Welcome back readers.  
This one is because I want you and any other readers to feel welcomed and not intimidated. I can't say I'm certain how it'll pan out, but I'm thinking originality can sometimes be placed on the back burner.


You might wonder why I'm putting in such effort for a class blog post... and the short answer is that I think writing in a somewhat silly, yet serious manner is fun. On that note, if you're going to do something, you might as well pour some passion in it to see if it'll develop into something more!

Anyways time to start talking about the academical stuff! This week our lovely professor Weiss made us do an in-class and at-home exercise on GitHub. The in-class exercise **[can be found here](https://github.com/hunter-college-ossd-fall-2019/git-activity-01)**, in short it was an activity to show us what it is like for multiple people work on one repository at the same time. The at-home excercise on the other hand **[can be found here](http://www.compsci.hunter.cuny.edu/~sweiss/course_materials/csci395.86/activities_f19/blog_editing_activity.pdf)**, where we try to provide suggestions for our classmates blog in a pull request.

Along with these activities, professor Weiss also made us read a couple more articles on open source. The two articles I will be writing about can be found **[here](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/a-beginners-very-bumpy-journey-through-the-world-of-open-source-4d108d540b39/)** and **[here](https://blog.newrelic.com/engineering/open-source-contribution/)**

### My experience with the exercises

The two exercises were way more enjoyable than I expected! I thought they would be boring due to lack of interaction with others, but being able to see the git repository update in real time and have conflicts was interesting. 

For the in-class activity I was slower than my teammates at picking up how to use the shell and commands properly, so I felt a little lacking. I did eventually got the hang of it and had successful pulls, merges, forks and pushes, but encountered two merge conflicts. They were eventually resolved after I pulled from the group repository. Our group managed to finish the activity with some time to spare, but one of my groupmates was unfortunable unable to get git working on their computer due to some type of firewall issue.

I was confused at one point during the activity when I typed 'git commit' without the -m by accident. Doing so brought up a different terminal of some kind that wanted some sort of input to finish the commit, but I couldn't figure it out unfortunately.

For in the at-home activity, it differed from the in-class activity due to making a fork of the repository right off the bat. That step made it so merge conflicts never arose at all, but I suspect it is due to the classmate's repository that I looked at didn't update while I was working.

### My thoughts on the articles

The first article I will be talking about will be "A Beginner’s Very Bumpy Journey Through The World of Open Source" by Shubheksha. The article highlights Shubhesha's experience getting into open source development but feeling intimidated by the whole process and limiting himself into positions where he wasn't pushing himself to learn and do more. What I've taken away from the article is to not be too afraid to reach out and talk with others. Being able to speak with the developers/creators of a project will help you learn more about the it so you can properly add onto the project. The other is to challenge yourself and place yourself into positions you may not entirely be comfortable with at first, as it’s a great learning opportunity to expand your own capabilities.

The second article was "7 Things That Make a Great Open Source Contribution" by Andy Lester. You can probably guess what the article is about from the title, and I am of the mindset that all self-explanatory things are good things! One of the points for open source contribution I wasn't aware of was the fact contributors should limit what they do in a single commit to a single effect and not change multiple parts at the same time. I wouldn't have thought about doing changes in that manner, but it does make a lot of sense. Keeping the development history of the repository obvious and clear to any new viewer can only be beneficial.

I would love to write more, but my bed is calling to me like ice cream on a hot day. So, this'll be a wrap-up paragraph of this week's blog post! I hope you enjoyed reading about my post revamp system and academical hoopla!

See you again next week!
