---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - Project decided!
---

Welcome back you good looking human to my humble ol’ blog! Can you believe that we’re already halfway through the school semester? It feels like it was only last week that I was getting my toes wet in learning about open source! But today here I am writing about a project I want to contribute to! Speaking of, it’s time to put on my serious face and talk all about the progress I made in finding said project!

### Repository evaluations

Over the last week I’ve been investigating a wider range of repositories that I limited myself to previously. I am still interested in looking into the Minecraft modding (API Forge)[ https://github.com/MinecraftForge/MinecraftForge]. However, after brushing up on my JavaScript, I realized I never knew much about the API in the first place and getting to know the inner workings of the API and JavaScript would take a long while. If I were required to not only figure out the inner workings, but find issues within it as well, I think it would take more than the remaining time left in this course! This doesn’t mean I won’t look at it as a prospective project to contribute to, but I want to leave it on the back burner as a backup if things don’t pan out. As for an evaluation of the repository, it is extremely active and the community seems to be very passionate and inviting, so there were no worries in that department!

Branching away from Forge, I looked up some issues on GitHub that were tagged ‘good first issue’ and discovered a music game called (Osu!)[ https://github.com/ppy/osu] that was programmed in C++! I was excited to try and work on the issue, so I looked at the community, the license, the activity, and it checked all the right boxes! The problem was that I had no idea how to solve the seemingly simple issue… and it may have been in part to me not understanding the file structure surrounding the project. As I mentioned in a previous post,  github repositories can have tens to hundreds of folders, and solving an issue, that isn’t related to documentation, can be a real head scratcher when you are not very familiar with how everything in a project is structured. With me not really seeing the issue as simple, I decided to turn away from working on Osu!

This is when I had a great idea! I decided I wanted to work on a program I am currently using, understand and have some issues with… which lead me to checking whether or not (Visual Studio Code)[ https://github.com/microsoft/vscode] is an open source project, and it is! Visual Studio Code is a great light weight code editor, but when I used it I felt it has a lot of problems introducing it’s available features. So my plan would be contributing to the documentation to improve upon the user experience with VS code. Hopefully this plan will work out!

### Bill Reyner and Corporation Incorporation of Open Source

One of the other notable things that happened last week was a new guest speaker visited our class to talk about how open source is used in a corporate environment. The speaker’s name was Bill Reyner, the associate director and vice president at FactSet. Whether it be viability, usefulness, downfalls, you name it, Bill Reyner talked about it! He was passionate and nerdy, which was fantastic! The fact he tried to do live examples and demonstrations during the presentation made learning about open source implementation enjoyable.

From talking about weighing the balance between in house development of a tool to finding a ready made one for the public, to trying to garner interest in his project to engineers by slapping the word open source on their company, it was wholly interesting. However there was a little bit of a disconnect I had with the talk. I felt like I won’t ever be in a position to think about the logistics and legality of incorporating an open source project in something I’ll be profiting off of, because it seems to be something a large company and a person in a position of authority for that company would need to consider, and not your everyday worker.

That aside, I absolutely loved these guest speakers coming in to talk about their experiences in the industry and their appreciation for open source projects (even though they alone aren’t able to give you a livable wage…)! They were highly engaging and I would always welcome new speakers with open arms!

That’s all my writing for this week. The next time I see you, hopefully I would have made progress towards that VS code contribution!

So long!
