---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - Learning about opensource  
---

Welcome back readers to my humble abode! Err… well, my humble internet abode? 

I was wondering when/if it would be possible to say 'my humble internet abode' literally... I don't think its uncommon to think about a futuristic society where people hook their brains to some cloud service. An extention of that line of thought lead me to wondering about the possbility of living life on said internet in a digitalized house, where it might be possible to purchase the house from a data marketplace or obtain it through an open source blueprint of some sort. The weird part is that if a person uploads their brain and make it open source, does that mean multiple copies of that person could possibly run around on the internet? Oh boy maybe I should lay off watching the Matrix for a while…

Uhh… back to more serious academic stuff! It is the third week into the Fall semester and I am here to talk about our new assignment from professor Weiss! This week us students need to write about what we’ve learned about open source software after reading about these [10 statements on open source software](https://www.techrepublic.com/blog/10-things/10-things-you-should-know-about-open-source-before-you-use-it/).

### What I’ve learned
It was a difficult finding new/interesting facts from the 10 statements on open source software due to a majority of the content from the statements overlapped with the content we learned in class. Things like open source software not always being free to freeware and shareware not being the same as open source. If it wasn’t things we learned in class, it was content that seemed like common sense, like all open source software not being related to Linux and the law not being broken if you decided to use or implement open source software. 
I guess the big takeaways I had were:
1. A lot of people will associate open source software with Linux even though open source software applies to a lot more
2. Some companies have a community/open source version of their product and still profit through a less open paid variation of their software. 
3. Notepad++ is opensource!
The most surprising of these is Notepad++ being open source. It really makes me wonder what other simple applications I use on a daily basis are open source if there are any.

Since there was only one question to answer this week, this post will be a little bit on the short side, but do not fear as another week will bring along another blog post!

See ya next time!
