---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - Project Research and Karen Sandler
---

Welcome one and all back to my merry academical blog! No drastic changes have taken place over the last week… instead I think I’m finally getting into the groove of writing these posts! This means that if everything goes smoothly for the rest of the semester, I’ll be as constant as gravity writing these!

In this week’s post I’ll be detailing my thought process on finding an open source project to work on, from my own research, as well as from the helpful readings provided to us by our lovely professor Weiss.

I’ll also be writing about the incredible talk that **[Karen Sandler]( https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karen_Sandler)**, the executive director of the **[Software Freedom Conservancy]( https://sfconservancy.org/)**, gave us on the legal discourse revolving around open source software and the reason why she advocates for it.

### Project diaries
I started researching a whole bunch of familiar names by using the **[first contributions]( https://firstcontributions.github.io/)** tool from last week. The names I looked up ranged from Duck Duck Go to Node JS, but even with the help of the tool, there were a couple of problems I found: 
1.	I don’t understand the current issues listed on the loaded page
2.	Some of the pages don’t have any issues that matched the automatically inserted query
3.	I am not well versed in the program to know much about it
4.	My interest/investment in working on these sorts of projects aren’t high
All these problems together made me take a step back and think about my approach. The reality of the situation was that I was looking in a way to just satisfy the requirements of the course. Although there is nothing inherently wrong about going through the motions to gain credits, I thought about what I wrote in an earlier post, I might as well put some passion into it.

Instead of looking at the first contributions, I began looking at all the applications I used that brought me enjoyment. The very first thing was games, and one of the big ones is Minecraft. Now Minecraft is proprietary, but one of the large subset communities in Minecraft is the modding community. I remember way back when I played with those mods, and they were great fun that expanded on what the game lacked! Even better was that I remembered many of the works were open sourced. After a bit of digging, the facilitator for modding Minecraft is under the LGPL, and many mods that use it as a foundation are under the GNU or MIT license.

The best part about me having the idea to contribute to these mods is that:
1.	It gives me a way to contribute to the community that gave me hundreds of hours of fun
2.	Foster a more palatable experience to foster interest in what I think is a great game
3.	Go back and experiment with all the changes over the last years and find some issues!

One of the first steps that I will have to take into being able to contribute code wise is probably brush up on my javascript though… and that’s going to take a whole lot of effort…

### Karen Sandler Talk
Karen Sandler’s talk was extremely informative and was all around interesting to listen to. When Sandler opened her introduction with explaining her current heart condition, it made me snap to attention out of respect for taking her time out to speak to us. When she followed up with ask us ‘what would be the first question you would ask, if you, as a computer scientists, were going to have a piece of technology implanted in you, be?’ Off the top of my head, thinking she was trying to lighten the atmosphere in the room, I jokingly thought the answer was, ‘does this make me a cyborg?’ Now although she did make that joke later on, she answered with, ‘what software does it run?’ 

Now that question really made me take a moment for introspection. That question made me start thinking about the more serious questions I never asked myself about the current climate of the software industry. She was completely right in wanting to know what program was running on the defibrillator that was going to be implanted into her. Even more shocking (pun intended) was the fact that the doctor seemed to not know what she was talking about! That’s was outrageous!

Another part of her talk that made my jaw drop was the idea that people don’t have a grasp over the benefits of open source. It’s a little mysterious how advanced the world has become, but how much more uninformed people are becoming one advancement at a time because of how fast everything is moving. It was a little more disheartening learning about patent trolls, proprietary software being so controlling, and great ideas being hidden all because of greed.

In the end, Karen Sandler did her job and now I’m definitely an supporter of open source software. I really hope it becomes more wide spread and popular in the on coming years. One question I was too shy to ask was ‘what are the benefits that proprietary software bring to companies aside from money?’ but I felt like it was too simple a question and it would embarrass myself. This is something I’ll definitely work on.

Well, that’s all for this week my fellow readers! I hope you’ll come back next week to learn about my open source adventures… hmm… an open source adventure sounds like a really cool community project… oh, right I was signing off!

See ya next week!

