---
layout: post
title: Week 12 – Baby footprint on the moon
---

Welcome back readers to my ever expanding repertoire of introductions to blog posts! And with these intros comes talk about my GitHub issue and an [interesting news article]( https://opensource.com/article/19/9/voting-fraud-open-source-solution?) professor Weiss gave us to read! 

### Open source and voting
As we have seen throughout the previous posts, proprietary software comes with its own slew of inconveniences and mishandlings. One of the more recent thoughts I had on the subject is how proprietary software eventually drops the support for dated software. If these dated softwares were released as open source projects, anyone who knew their way around the code base would be able to continue to support it if they or others needed it. An example of this can be seen with the older versions of Windows OS and how support for those systems dropped completely while [a sizable population still run it]( https://www.businessinsider.com/how-many-people-use-windows-xp-chart-2017-5).

On that note, let’s discuss voting. It is the right and duty of every citizen to vote for whatever they think is best in the interest of America. Wars, rallies, protests have been raised over the last 100 years for certain people to gain access to this right, yet people have no way of verifying their vote or if it was even counted properly. A great point of reference for this subject is covered in this [episode John Oliver did on voting machines](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=svEuG_ekNT0&feature=emb_logo), and the state of the voting system is absolutely atrocious. The fact that any random person can walk up to the voting booth that’s left unattended, physically access the boot system for the device with a pen, and modify the process is jaw dropping. The fact that the systems are never properly tested immediately makes me believe that the development should have never touched the hands of proprietary companies and should have been open source to begin with.

It is incredibly frustrating that the voices of the people who need to be heard are heard improperly, if at all, due to a process that could easily be automated with proper action, yet isn’t done due to mismanaged resources and old ideals.

### GitHub and the nervous wreck
With my frustrations vented, I can now move onto my anxiety rant! The deed has been done, and an issue was submitted last week to the [VS code](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode) github about their mildly confusing documentation pattern! What has happened over that last week you ask? Well… not much? I checked the issue request every day to see whether or not I would gain a response from a repository managed, but the only notification that was made was someone being assigned to the issue. The assignment of a person happened on the first day, but for an entire week no comment was made.

Knowing that I needed to make a contribution by the end of the semester, I felt pressured to take the initiative and create a pull request after applying the change to the readme on my own fork. Honestly, I just [wrote the PR](https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/pull/85263) and closed my browser window immediately since I was so nervous to see how the maintainers would respond! It’s like you’re a newbie sculptor who sees something off on a masterwork cathedral that was built years ago and you want to make a small change to a stair step that seems off. You ask the higher ups of the cathedral if they think it’s a problem and all they do is stare back at you. Thinking it would be in the best interest of everybody, you change the step, but you just feel the dread of possibly being berated by the higher ups who just stared at you earlier… At the very least I can say I have grown in taking a step forward regardless of how scared I am, which I think is a great achievement. So yup, that’s how I feel. Hopefully I will get feedback about it this week and if the change is proper it will go through!

Here is to praying everything works out properly, and tune in next week to see if my nervous transform into steel!

See ya!
 
